So let's talk about WordPress.
Probably the most powerful flexible option you have in terms of building your own freelance Web site.
So there's a lot of different templates you can use that are free that are already installed.
When you have WordPress WordPress does require a hosting plan and then need to install Wordpress on
your hosting plan and it can link up your domain name on your hosting plan to have a formal domain name.
So after you have installed WordPress as is kind of the basic dashboard I'm not going to be going through
how to use WordPress which is kind of showing you through the template process to try to find a layout
or a template that would work best for your freelancer Web site.
So first of all let's talk about the free default themes.
Search is going to go to appearance and themes and check those out.
It's amazing what you can do with what they already have for you for free.
And it's going to depend on what you want to focus on first and what industry you're in where they want
to lead with a photo where they want to lead with a video or whether you want to lead with type or a
headline.
You can preview these at anytime and go ahead and do a live preview to see how it works or if you can
customize these pretty heavily if you know coding or CSX.
But even out of the box these things are pretty customizable could even change the menu system very
easily they've just recently updated Wordpress and they've continuing to change the desktop.
So are the dashboard so you might see a lot of some differences for when you're looking at it but it's
overall pretty much the same you can go ahead does activate that theme and then you can customize.
So let's say we won't go ahead and activate this when go down to customize and that's how you can go
in and do some of the theme options edit the menus
and then you can go down to the editor which is going to be a little bit more advanced.
So if you know any kind of coding or if this is what you do for a living this is where you're going
to be going to edit all sorts of template files and CSX files and BHP files.
So if you're kind of the advance user and go to theme editor editor and really have a little bit of
fun with this but if not you go to customize and then you can do your themes that way.
So these are all default themes you know they're not going to be for everybody not going to be nice.
This one's not necessarily great for a portfolio it's great for a regular business that may have products.
So let's see if we can't find a few free or premium WordPress templates that I think would work really
good with the type of layouts you want.
So I'm going to take my layout guide here I have the has some different Web site layout ideas I can
find a theme that I think matches really well for each one of those layouts and I'm going to have that
as a another downloadable resource in this lesson.
So you can get some ideas of what wordpress themes would match really good with those layouts.
Of course you can add in what's called plugins.
These are extra little plugins you can add to a wordpress site.
It could be social media that you're adding onto your Web site.
It could be SEO or adding some search stuff onto your Web site.
You can actually search free plug ins on a lot of different places and you can download those to add
additional functionality to your Web site.
And this is the big power and benefit to WordPress is it takes there's a learning curve and learning
or what's a plug in and what the theme and how do I get started with all that.
But once you understand plug ins and themes you've really understood all a big part of WordPress and
how it works.
So there's a great SEO plugin that you can download to be able to add SEO and be able to be searchable.
These are things that are may not always be in square space of course they have some of that built in.
But the great thing about WordPress is you have complete control over this.
You can have 30 plug ins that all help drive your Web site and drive customers to a Web site or clients.
So you don't have maximum customer ability there.
So we're gonna look for some website templates or WordPress templates.
We're gonna go to one of my favorite places to go which is the creative market dot.com.
And they have a lot of great not only photos and graphics but they also have wordpress themes right
here you can also get plugins as well of their specific plugins you're looking for which is basically
additional functionalities you're adding to Web site is what a plugin is.
So let's go ahead and find these are different ideas so there's a business blog commerce non-profit
minimal.
We want to do portfolio for our particular ones are going to click on the portfolio ones where you can
order these by popularity.
But I'd like to order them on hand-picked is pretty good because they're curated.
Let's go go through these and I have already make sure you download that resource I have already picked
out several.
I've done a couple of hours of research on templates I've used several of these for client projects
when I did web design for client work and they're really flexible and pretty solid options and they're
pretty affordable some of them are early twenty five dollars some are about 60 some of the high end
ones could be a couple hundred dollars but I don't think you need to really spend all that much to get
a really good solid template.
I mean if you have one that's five dollars right here and it's got kind of a lot of functionality built
in there you go ahead and preview this five dollars that's not much for a Web site is it.
So let's go ahead and click on it and see what this looks like.
This is great for portfolio if this is the style that you want to could change your background image
you can have a full screen video when they go on the web page always look at the reviews I like I don't
buy anything under four stars doesn't matter how cheap it is if it's under four stars I'm very weary
of it.
So this looks like a really nice modern clean design at sixty dollars so let's go ahead and look at
the live preview.
This is very simplistic I even liked a little touches that it has that my arrow icon has turned into
a little icon there it's really nice really nice touch
this is be great for a photographer very very simple and some of the simple ones are great because they're
gonna be really easy to edit.
Some of these more complex template sites they're overwhelming when you're still learning how to do
WordPress if you're new to WordPress.
So sometimes it's more simplistic ones work really well because they don't have a lot of working parts
to them and they're not confusing to edit.
So let's take a look at this one this one's a little more affordable at twenty four dollars.
Let's take a look at this very simplistic clean.
I'm sure you can change that column width and the photo size for those.
These are all pop up videos.
They're very simple but I would almost be willing to work with a free template if it's going to be quite
this basic.
So let's try to find some free templates just so I can show you how to find those to the best place
to go for that as WordPress dot org.
It's the non-profit organization that covers WordPress.
So anything with a dot org is non-profit.
They're not trying to make money they're non-profit open source company so you can trust anything that
WordPress dot org puts out.
These are all free.
Let's take a look.
Of course the quality goes down a little bit when you're looking at free.
But if you've kind of spent some time adding a plug in or working with the layout a little bit you could
probably get this to where you needed to be in this Neptune looks pretty good.
So you can just download it and you would just go and install it you would go to appearance themes once
you download that zip file and you click up here to add new and you'll be able to upload your theme
right here and then you'll be able to select it on the bottom so please check out those recommendations
of course you can look on your own to find what you think would work best for your portfolio.
But just wanted to take a 10 minutes or so to talk about WordPress as it's the most flexible option
takes a little bit more time to get set up and learn but it's the most flexible option you have available.